# OpenTelemetry Community Code of Conduct

The OpenTelemetry project aims to be a welcoming place where new and existing
members feel safe to respectfully share their opinions and disagreements. We
want to attract a diverse group of people to collaborate with us, which means
acknowledging that people come from different backgrounds and cultures. 

This project is bound by and abides by the [CNCF Code of
Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md).
Conflicts should be resolved respectfully between the involved parties, however
we understand that it may not always be possible without outside help or
mediation. When needed, any community member can ask for help or report a Code
of Conduct violation to the Governance Committee as outlined below. The project
prefers for violations to be reported first to the Governance Committee so that
they may be resolved internally, however, in extreme cases code of conduct
violations should be reported to the CNCF as outlined in the [CNCF Incident
Resolution
Procedures](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/code-of-conduct/coc-incident-resolution-procedures.md).
Anyone who is unsure if a violation should be reported to the project or the
CNCF should refer to the [CNCF CoC Jurisdiction
Policy](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/code-of-conduct/coc-committee-jurisdiction-policy.md).

## Reporting violations

If you have seen or experienced unacceptable behavior or anything that would
make our community less welcoming, please speak up!

When the Governance Committee (GC) determines that a code of conduct violation
happened, it will take the actions deemed necessary and appropriate for the
event. In more serious cases, the community member might be requested to depart
from our communities, giving up any roles they may possess, such as the
maintainership of a SIG. In extreme cases, the GC can force the departure of the
member.

## Submit in writing

To report a violation in writing, please email
cncf-opentelemetry-governance@lists.cncf.io, which goes to all GC members. If
you do not want your report to be received by all GC members, either because you
want to submit a report anonymously or because one of the GC members has a
conflict of interest, you may send your report directly to any individual GC
member. The [current list of
members](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/community-members.md#governance-committee)
can be found on our community repository, and you can ping any of them directly
on [CNCFâ€™s Slack](https://slack.cncf.io)

## Submit in spoken conversation

If you prefer to report the violation in a spoken conversation, you may request
a telephone conversation or virtual meeting with a GC member.

# How to report anonymously

If you desire to submit a report anonymously, please send a message directly to
any individual member of our GC through the CNCF Slack and let them know you
would like to submit a Code of Conduct report anonymously. If you submit your
report anonymously, that member of the GC will share the contents of your report
with the rest of the GC, but they will not disclose your identity as the
reporter to the other members of the GC (unless such disclosure is necessary to
comply with applicable laws or a court order, or to protect you or someone else
from imminent danger).
